README.md, before:

# Course Work
 OOP Coursework. VILNIUS TECH.

![](screenshots/maingamescreen.png)

## Restaurant Tycoon
### Dependencies
- NiceGUI (Web GUI) `pip install nicegui`
- Faker (For fake name generation) `pip install faker`

### Idea
Thrilling restaurant management game where you'll immerse yourself in the fast-paced world of culinary chaos! In this web-based adventure developed in Python, you'll step into the shoes of a restaurant manager, tasked with handling orders and delivering delectable dishes to eager customers within strict time limits.
 
### How to run?
You can clone the repository, install the necessary dependencies and run `python main.py`. It will launch a local server at 127.0.0.1:8080 (or similar port).

### How to play?
When launching the game, you will see a side-menu and a main-menu in the middle. On the side-menu, there are two buttons - kitchen and inventory. Above them you see your points and lives. If you click the the kitchen button, you will see your available foods you can cook. They take time, and you can only cook one food at the time, so think twice before starting to cook. In your inventory, the cooked foods come up, here you can deliver them to customers who want them.

## The 4 pillars of OOP, their meaning and usage in the code.
### Polymorphism and Inheritance
In this section of code, we have a case of polymorphism, where we create a abstract class called CustomerCreator, and seperate RegularCustomer and VIPCustomer classes. They do the same thing, but some attributes and methods are different between them. This helps us implement different customers with different behavior. Also in the Customer classes mentioned above, we have a case of inheritance. When creating a VIPCustomer and a RegularCustomer, we don't really want seperate card-drawing or dialogue-creating mechanisms, so we instead inherit from the parent class CustomerCreator and this helps us share methods and attributes between the seperate child classes.

![](screenshots/abcpolyinheritance.png)

### Abstraction
When creating the customer mechanism, it was a challenge to create multiple types of customers. Abstract Base Class method helped me achieve the results I've wanted. It allows us to create sort of like a template of a customer, which then has derived child classes to a certain type of customer, allowing us to not only implement polymorphsim and inheritance, but also Template Method design pattern.
(See picture above Abstraction)

### Encapsulation
It was a challenge to implement encapsulation into my game. It was not hard to implement protected access modifiers, since they're just a convention and it doesn't play with the logic of the code. When trying to create private access modifiers I've encountered various problems such as different parts of code not being able to access them outside of the class.

![](screenshots/protected.png)

## Design patterns used in the code
### Singleton
In this snippet of the code, we use Singleton object in order to ensure that the restaurant object is created only once. The object itself holds crucial data for the game such as: points, lives and health management. We use a standalone class named Singleton which ensures there is only one instance of the given class created (in this case the Restaurant() object) because we only want one instance of the restaurant created (hence why this is a singular restaurant management game, not multiple restaurants management game).

![](screenshots/singleton.png)

### Template Method
By implementing Polymorphsim and Inheritance, I also automatically found out the template method in my game. (See picture in Polymorphism and Inheritance). The base class is created as a template for other customer types to customize. To minimize the code usage, the base class of CustomerCreator has RegularCustomer attributes, but VIPCustomer overwrites the attributes and methods. In conclusion, the template method lets us implement unlimited amount of customer types easily without a hassle.

## Reading from and writing to a file.
When creating the game, I had to come up with an idea of how to implement the food and dialogue lists. After deciding to use the JSON format files (because it's easy to parse them in Python), it made my life a whole lot easier. After completing the 'reading from a file' functional requirement, I had to come up with an idea of what to write in a file. The library I am using for the GUI (NiceGUI) has a nice built-in feature of persistant storage in the browser and it allows me to write the high-score of a player inside the browsers storage.

![](screenshots/jsonparsing.png)
![](screenshots/highscore.png)

## Testing

## Code Style
The code style is following the PEP8 style guidelines.

## Results

## Conclusions

Commit message:

Finish line
Final commit. The game is ready. Markdown is written.

README.md, after:

# Course Work
 OOP Coursework. VILNIUS TECH.

![](screenshots/maingamescreen.png)

## Restaurant Tycoon
### Dependencies
- NiceGUI (Web GUI) `pip install nicegui`
- Faker (For fake name generation) `pip install faker`

### Idea
Thrilling restaurant management game where you'll immerse yourself in the fast-paced world of culinary chaos! In this web-based adventure developed in Python, you'll step into the shoes of a restaurant manager, tasked with handling orders and delivering delectable dishes to eager customers within strict time limits.
 
### How to run?
You can clone the repository, install the necessary dependencies and run `python main.py`. It will launch a local server at 127.0.0.1:8080 (or similar port).

### How to play?
When launching the game, you will see a side-menu and a main-menu in the middle. On the side-menu, there are two buttons - kitchen and inventory. Above them you see your points and lives. If you click the the kitchen button, you will see your available foods you can cook. They take time, and you can only cook one food at the time, so think twice before starting to cook. In your inventory, the cooked foods come up, here you can deliver them to customers who want them.

## The 4 pillars of OOP, their meaning and usage in the code.
### Polymorphism and Inheritance
In this section of code, we have a case of polymorphism, where we create a abstract class called CustomerCreator, and seperate RegularCustomer and VIPCustomer classes. They do the same thing, but some attributes and methods are different between them. This helps us implement different customers with different behavior. Also in the Customer classes mentioned above, we have a case of inheritance. When creating a VIPCustomer and a RegularCustomer, we don't really want seperate card-drawing or dialogue-creating mechanisms, so we instead inherit from the parent class CustomerCreator and this helps us share methods and attributes between the seperate child classes.

![](screenshots/abcpolyinheritance.png)

### Abstraction
When creating the customer mechanism, it was a challenge to create multiple types of customers. Abstract Base Class method helped me achieve the results I've wanted. It allows us to create sort of like a template of a customer, which then has derived child classes to a certain type of customer, allowing us to not only implement polymorphsim and inheritance, but also Template Method design pattern.
(See picture above Abstraction)

### Encapsulation
It was a challenge to implement encapsulation into my game. It was not hard to implement protected access modifiers, since they're just a convention and it doesn't play with the logic of the code. When trying to create private access modifiers I've encountered various problems such as different parts of code not being able to access them outside of the class.

![](screenshots/protected.png)

## Design patterns used in the code
### Singleton
In this snippet of the code, we use Singleton object in order to ensure that the restaurant object is created only once. The object itself holds crucial data for the game such as: points, lives and health management. We use a standalone class named Singleton which ensures there is only one instance of the given class created (in this case the Restaurant() object) because we only want one instance of the restaurant created (hence why this is a singular restaurant management game, not multiple restaurants management game).

![](screenshots/singleton.png)

### Template Method
By implementing Polymorphsim and Inheritance, I also automatically found out the template method in my game. (See picture in Polymorphism and Inheritance). The base class is created as a template for other customer types to customize. To minimize the code usage, the base class of CustomerCreator has RegularCustomer attributes, but VIPCustomer overwrites the attributes and methods. In conclusion, the template method lets us implement unlimited amount of customer types easily without a hassle.

## Reading from and writing to a file
When creating the game, I had to come up with an idea of how to implement the food and dialogue lists. After deciding to use the JSON format files (because it's easy to parse them in Python), it made my life a whole lot easier. After completing the 'reading from a file' functional requirement, I had to come up with an idea of what to write in a file. The library I am using for the GUI (NiceGUI) has a nice built-in feature of persistant storage in the browser and it allows me to write the high-score of a player inside the browsers storage.

![](screenshots/jsonparsing.png)
![](screenshots/highscore.png)

## Testing
Learning UnitTests allowed me to test the game functionality without actually trying to play the game. Asserting certain values let me adjust the deduction or adding of points or lives.
![](screenshots/unittest.png)

## Code Style
The code style is following the PEP8 style guidelines.

## Results
- Implementing Design Patterns allowed me to easily control objects around the project and re-use them as templates.
- Looking at the project from the OOP perspective allowed the project to be easily understood.
- Some challenges were encountered during the implementation of encapsulation, as I did not see a single point in the code where I could implement the private access modifier.
- Working on this project completely taught me to understand the OOP principles, and my coding habits since this project have changed a lot (as seen in my other projects).
- After learning UnitTests it allowed me to see that it is possible to test something without actually opening the project and trying it out for yourself.

## Conclusions
When first starting out this project, I thought it would be easy as I've did a lot of programming before this course. Turns out, I was wrong, because the OOP principles were hard to grasp when trying to implement them after years of programming without OOP. But I can confidently say that it was a breakthrough in my understanding of programming and learning the principles allowed me to implement features I could not before. If I would start again from scratch, I would rewrite a lot of the logic and implement more features, but the way I coded this from the start, stops me from doing so.
